---
layout: default
title: "I'm back!"
date: 2020-06-11
---
After taking a rather long hiatus, I'm back, with a new project! I'll write about it in a different post, but first, I need to reorganize this blog a bit.

When I created this blog, it only contained a `index.html` file and a `_config.yml` file. `index.html` is a simple page with static content, not really suited for displaying multiple posts. I could of course just add the new post at the beginning of the `index` file, but that would lead to a gigantic single file which would be hard to manage, I imagine.

Jekyll allows to separate posts each in its own file in a `_posts` folder. The first step should then be to just create the folder and move the previous `index` file there, renaming it along the way to match to satisfy conventions. Sounds easy enough, make all the changes, `git push`, the new site is deployed, and tadaa!

```
404

File not found

The site configured at this address does not contain the requested file.

If this is your site, make sure that the filename case matches the URL.
For root URLs (like http://example.com/) you must provide an index.html file. 
```

Well. That's not what I was expecting. Apparently, the `index.html` file is indeed mandatory. After searching the web for a bit, I came to the [Jekyll Documentation](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/step-by-step/08-blogging/) on blogging. The section "List posts" explained how to make a list all current blog posts on the site and display them on a page. I used that approach and re-added the `index.html` file, `git push`ed again, fingers crossed, and it worked! Well, kind of. When navigating to the root of the site, `Pages` still tells me that the `index`-file is missing, but navigating directly to the `/index.html` path works. I'll have to figure out that one.

Next up: Set up a local test environment to not have to push 20 times to debug some issue. I should also add some basic navigation and rethink the overall page layout... 